Create a template blueprint - EP000 (#1129)
kytos/kytos: docs/blueprints/EP000.rst

This meta blueprint is intended to make the contributors workflow more clear about how to write a new blueprint.

#############
Specification
#############

Workflow
**************
Every blueprint should follow the steps below in order to be finished:
 
Outline the subject
===================
The process for writing a blueprint should begin by describing a new idea, a specification to something that has been defined to be implemented. It is recommended that a single blueprint contain a single proposal. The more focused the blueprint, the more successful it tends to be. The Kytos team have the right to reject or approve any proposal. If in doubt, create an issue in the Kytos Project on Github and add a comment asking if the issue could be a blueprint.

Submitting a blueprint
======================
After create a first blueprint adding every necessary section (check the sections in "Sections that a blueprint should have") you are encouraged to create a pull request at repository kytos attending the following criteria:

    - The file containing the proposal must be named "EPX.rst";

    - The file must contain a header following the template available in Blueprint Header section;

>     - The file must be in restructured text (RST) format like the other blueprints (as you can see at 'kytos/docs/blueprints').

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The file must be written in restructured text (RST) format like the other blueprints (as you can see at 'kytos/docs/blueprints').
```

Abstract
========
A short (~200 word) description of the technical issue being addressed.

Motivation
==========
It should clearly explain why the blueprint is being proposed describing any technical issue that is intended to be covered by the proposal.

Rationale
=========
The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported in other environments or scenarios.

Specification
=============
The technical specification should describe the aspects of what is being proposed.

Backwards Compatibility
=======================
All EPs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The EP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities.

Security Implications
=====================
If there are security concerns in relation to the EP, those concerns should be explicitly written out to make sure reviewers of the EP are aware of them.

Rejected Ideas
==============

> Throughout the discussion of a EP, various ideas will be proposed which are not accepted. Those rejected ideas should be recorded along with the reasoning as to why they were rejected. This both helps record the thought process behind the final version of the EP as well as preventing people from bringing up the same rejected idea again in subsequent discussions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughout the discussion of an EP, various proposed ideas end up not being accepted. Those rejected ideas should be recorded along with the reasoning as to why they were rejected. This both helps record the thought process behind the final version of the EP as well as preventing people from bringing up the same rejected ideas again in subsequent discussions.
```

:EP: 00
:Title: Enhancement Proposals
:Authors:
    - Antonio Francisco <ajoaoff@gmail.com>
    - Carlos Magno <cmagnobarbosa@gmail.com>
    - Gleyberson Andrade <gleybersonandrade@gmail.com>
    - Humberto Diógenes <hdiogenes@gmail.com>
    - José Mauro Ribeiro <zemauror@gmail.com>
    - Rogério Motitsuki <rogerio@ansp.br>
:Created: 2020-05-14
:Kytos-Version: 2020.1
:Status: Draft
:Type: Standards Track

########
Abstract
########

> This blueprint is proposed to clarify what a blueprint is, its purpose, list the types of blueprints, explain which sections should be included in a blueprint, the information that should be included in each topic and the workflow involving a blueprint proposal. Therefore, this blueprint is intended to work as meta blueprint.

Reviewer 2: A section explaining the the types of blueprints is missing in this document.

Author: I just created the mentioned section, and we can work together on it.

##########
Motivation
##########

> Kytos Project uses word 'blueprint' to refer a very specific type of document that have a very import role in development process. Anyone who are not familiar with the concept should be able to understand and start a draft blueprint using the EP0 (blueprint 00).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kytos Project uses word 'blueprint' to refer to a very specific type of document that plays a very import role in development process. Anyone who is not familiar with the concept should be able to understand and start a draft blueprint using the EP0 (blueprint 00).
```

###################
What is a blueprint
###################

> A blueprint is document used to specify the details of any process, features and anything else that is desirable to be implanted in Kytos Project and cannot be reduced to a Github issue or a meeting to be outlined.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A blueprint is a document used to specify the details of any process, features and anything else that is desirable to be implemented in Kytos Project and cannot be reduced to a Github issue or a meeting to be outlined.
```

#########
Audience
#########

> The primary audience for EPs are the core developers, as well as network engineers involved at the Kytos Project. However, other parts of the Kytos community may use the EP's to understand many aspects of the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The primary audience for EPs are the core developers, as well as network engineers involved in the Kytos Project. However, other parts of the Kytos community may use the EPs to understand many aspects of the project.
```

#########
Rationale
#########
This meta blueprint is intended to make the contributors workflow more clear about how to write a new blueprint.

#############
Specification
#############

Workflow
**************

> Every blueprint should be followed the steps below in order to be finished:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every blueprint should follow the steps below in order to be finished:
```

 
Outline the subject
===================

> The process to write a blueprint should begin describing a new idea, a specification to something that it was defined to be deployed. It is recommended that a single blueprint contain a single proposal. The more focused the blueprint the more successful it tends to be. The Kytos team have the right to reject or approve any proposal. If in doubt, create an issue in the Kytos Project at Github and add a comment asking if the issue could be a blueprint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The process for writing a blueprint should begin by describing a new idea, a specification to something that has been defined to be implemented. It is recommended that a single blueprint contain a single proposal. The more focused the blueprint, the more successful it tends to be. The Kytos team have the right to reject or approve any proposal. If in doubt, create an issue in the Kytos Project on Github and add a comment asking if the issue could be a blueprint.
```

Submitting a blueprint
======================

> After create a first blueprint adding every necessary section (check the sections in "Sections that a blueprint should have") you are encouraged to create a pull request at repository kytos attending the following criteria:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After creating a first blueprint by adding every necessary section (check the sections under "Sections that a blueprint should have") you are encouraged to create a pull request in Kytos repository attending the following criteria:
```

>     - The file containing the proposal must be named "EPX.rst";

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - The file containing the proposal must follow the naming convention "EP[number].rst", where [number] is a sequential number, e.g. "EP001.rst";
```

    - The file must contain a header following the template available in Blueprint Header section;

>     - The file must int restructured text (RST) format like the others blueprints (as you can see at 'kytos/docs/blueprints').

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - The file must be in restructured text (RST) format like the other blueprints (as you can see at 'kytos/docs/blueprints').
```

Blueprint review
================

> The following days after you submit your pull request the Kytos team will be reviewing the document adding comments and suggestions. So is very important that the author of the pull request pay attention to the Kytos team feedback to make review a quick process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following days after you submit your pull request the Kytos team will review the document adding comments and suggestions. So it is very important that the author of the pull request pay attention to the Kytos team feedback to make the review a quick process.
```

Sections that a blueprint should have
*************************************

Header
======

> This section must be use the template available at Blueprint Header section in this blueprint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section must use the template available in the Blueprint Header section of this blueprint.
```

Specification
=============
The technical specification should describe the aspects of what is being proposed.

Backwards Compatibility
=======================
All EPs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The EP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities.

Security Implications
=====================
If there are security concerns in relation to the EP, those concerns should be explicitly written out to make sure reviewers of the EP are aware of them.

Rejected Ideas
==============
Throughout the discussion of a EP, various ideas will be proposed which are not accepted. Those rejected ideas should be recorded along with the reasoning as to why they were rejected. This both helps record the thought process behind the final version of the EP as well as preventing people from bringing up the same rejected idea again in subsequent discussions.
 
References
==========
References -- A collection of URLs used as references through the EP.

Copyright/license
=================

################
Blueprint Header
################

> Every blueprint proposal should be used this template to build their own header:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every blueprint proposal should use this template to build their own header:
```

        - Humberto Diógenes hdiogenes@gmail.com;

          - José Mauro Ribeiro zemauror@gmail.com; 

    - Rogério Motitsuki <rogerio@ansp.br>

    
:Created: 2020-05-14
:Kytos-Version: 2020.1
:Status: Draft
:Type: Standards Track

########
Abstract
########
This blueprint is proposed to clarify what a blueprint is, its purpose, list the types of blueprints, explain which sections should be included in a blueprint, the information that should be included in each topic and the workflow involving a blueprint proposal. Therefore, this blueprint is intended to work as meta blueprint.

##########
Motivation
##########
Kytos Project uses word 'blueprint' to refer a very especific type of document that have a very import role in development process. Anyone who are not familiar with the concept should be able to understand and start a draft blueprint using the EP0 (blueprint 00).

#############
What is a blueprint
#############
A blueprint is document used to specify the details of any process, features and anything else that is desirable to be implanted in Kytos Project and cannot be reduced to a Github issue or a meeting to be outlined.

#########
Audience
#########

> The primary audience for EPs are the core developers, as well as network engineers involved at the Kytos Project . However, other parts of the Kytos community may use the EP's to understand many aspects of the project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The primary audience for EPs are the core developers, as well as network engineers involved at the Kytos Project. However, other parts of the Kytos community may use the EP's to understand many aspects of the project.
```

#######
Rationale
#######
This meta blueprint is intended to make the contributors workflow more clear about how to write a new blueprint.

#############
Specification
#############

Workflow
**************
Every blueprint should be follow the steps below in order to be finished:
 
Outline the subject
=================

> The process to write a blueprint should begins describing a new idea, a specification to something that it was defined to be deployed.  It is recommended that a single blueprint contain a single proposal. The more focused the blueprint the more successful it tends to be. The Kytos team have the right to reject or aprove any proposal. If in doubt, create a issue in the Kytos Project at Github and add a coment asking if the the issue could be a blueprint.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The process to write a blueprint should begins describing a new idea, a specification to something that it was defined to be deployed. It is recommended that a single blueprint contain a single proposal. The more focused the blueprint the more successful it tends to be. The Kytos team have the right to reject or aprove any proposal. If in doubt, create a issue in the Kytos Project at Github and add a coment asking if the the issue could be a blueprint.
```

Submitting a blueprint
====================
After create a first blueprint adding every necessary section (check the sections at "Sections that a blueprint should have") you are encouraged to create a pull request at repository kytos attending the following criteria:

>     - The file containing the proposal must be named "EP0.rst";

Reviewer 3: Maybe it can be:

```suggestion
    - The file containing the proposal must be named "EPX.rst";
```

    - The file must containing a header following the template avaible in Blueprint Header section;

    - The file must int restructured text (RST) format like the others blueprints (as you can see at 'kytos/docs/blueprints').

Blueprint review
===============

The following days after you submit your pull request the Kytos team will be reviewing the document adding comments and suggestions. So is very important that the author of the pull request pay attention to the Kytos team feedback to make review a quick process.

Sections that a blueprint should have
*****************************************************

Header
=======
This section must  be use the template available at Blueprint Header section in this blueprint.

Abstract
========
A short (~200 word) description of the technical issue being addressed.

Motivation
=========
It should clearly explain why the blueprint is being proposed describing any techinal issue that is intended to be covered by the proposal.

Rationale
========

> The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing why particular design decisions were made.  It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported in other enviroments or scenarios.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported in other enviroments or scenarios.
```

Specification
===========
The technical specification should describe the aspects of what is being proposed.

Backwards Compatibility
======================

> All Eps that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity.  The EP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All Eps that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The EP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. 
```

:EP: 00
:Title: Enhancement Proposals
:Authors:
    - Antonio Francisco <ajoaoff@gmail.com>
    - Carlos Magno <cmagnobarbosa@gmail.com>
    - Gleyberson Andrade <gleybersonandrade@gmail.com>
    - Humberto Diógenes <hdiogenes@gmail.com>
    - José Mauro Ribeiro <zemauror@gmail.com>
    - Rogério Motitsuki <rogerio@ansp.br>
:Created: 2020-05-14
:Kytos-Version: 2020.1
:Status: Draft
:Type: Standards Track

########
Abstract
########

> This blueprint is proposed to clarify what a blueprint is, its purpose, list the types of blueprints, explain which sections should be included in a blueprint, the information that should be included in each topic and the workflow involving a blueprint proposal. Therefore, this blueprint is intended to work as meta blueprint.

Reviewer 4: Small suggestions are recommended by Grammarly.
```suggestion
This blueprint is proposed to clarify what a blueprint is, its purpose, list the types of blueprints, explain which sections should be included in a blueprint, the information that should be included in each topic and the workflow involving a blueprint proposal. Therefore, this blueprint is intended to work as a meta blueprint.
```

##########
Motivation
##########

> Kytos Project uses word 'blueprint' to refer to a very specific type of document that plays a very important role in development process. Anyone who is not familiar with the concept should be able to understand and start a draft blueprint using the EP0 (blueprint 00).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Kytos Project uses the word 'blueprint' to refer to a very specific type of document that plays a very important role in the development process. Anyone who is not familiar with the concept should be able to understand and start a draft blueprint using the EP0 (blueprint 00).
```

> 

Reviewer 5: IMO, we need to improve this motivation. What are the problems of not having blueprints? The motivation should be "why are we using blueprints after all".

Author: Well, thanks for your comments. I updated the section "Motivation", please let me know if you have any suggestion.

###################
What is a blueprint
###################

> A blueprint is a document used to specify the details of any process, features and anything else that is desirable to be implemented in Kytos Project and cannot be reduced to a Github issue or a meeting to be outlined.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A blueprint is a document used to specify the details of any process, features, and anything else that is desirable to be implemented in the Kytos Project and cannot be reduced to a Github issue or a meeting to be outlined.
```

Author: I am not sure about this comma after "features". Do you agree with this suggestion by Grammarly?

Reviewer 6: This is called the "Oxford comma" and is completely optional, Mauro.

Author: Oh, good to know! Thanks guys.

#########
Audience
#########
The primary audience for EPs are the core developers, as well as network engineers involved in the Kytos Project. However, other parts of the Kytos community may use the EPs to understand many aspects of the project.

#########
Rationale
#########

> This meta blueprint is intended to make the contributors workflow more clear about how to write a new blueprint.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This meta blueprint is intended to make the contributor's workflow more clear about how to write a new blueprint.
```

#############
Specification
#############

Workflow
**************
Every blueprint should follow the steps below in order to be finished:
 
Outline the subject
===================
The process for writing a blueprint should begin by describing a new idea, a specification to something that has been defined to be implemented. It is recommended that a single blueprint contain a single proposal. The more focused the blueprint, the more successful it tends to be. The Kytos team have the right to reject or approve any proposal. If in doubt, create an issue in the Kytos Project on Github and add a comment asking if the issue could be a blueprint.

Submitting a blueprint
======================
After creating a first blueprint by adding every necessary section (check the sections under "Sections that a blueprint should have") you are encouraged to create a pull request in Kytos repository attending the following criteria:

    - The file containing the proposal must follow the naming convention "EP[number].rst", where [number] is a sequential number, e.g. "EP001.rst";

    - The file must contain a header following the template available in Blueprint Header section;

>     - The file must be written in restructured text (RST) format like the other blueprints (as you can see at 'kytos/docs/blueprints').

Reviewer 5: We should also mention that the status should be 'draft'.

Author: Good! I'll add it.

Blueprint review
================

> In the following days after you submit your pull request the Kytos team will review the document adding comments and suggestions. So it is very important that the author of the pull request pay attention to the Kytos team feedback to make the review a quick process.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the following days after you submit your pull request, the Kytos team will review the document adding comments and suggestions. So the author of the pull request must pay attention to the Kytos team feedback to make the review a quick process.
```

> Sections that a blueprint should have

Reviewer 5: You are suggesting those sections, but this own blueprint BP000 is not following this recommendation.

Author: Well, I think all those sections won't be always necessary.  What do you think? For instance, I don't think that 'Security Implications' makes sense in BP000.
The sections that are not included in BP000 are:
-Backwards Compatibility
-Security Implications
-Rejected Ideas
Do you think they should be included?

Reviewer 5: IMO, all sections must be there for easy navigation, even if empty or with some strings like "not applicable here".

Reviewer 5: Also, Backwards Compatibility IMO should be described here, in BP000 since we have already a bunch of previous BPs. What we are going to do with the old bp? We should at least describe there that we don't want to touch them since it is past blueprints.

Specification
=============
The technical specification should describe the aspects of what is being proposed.

Backwards Compatibility
=======================
All EPs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The EP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities.

Security Implications
=====================
If there are security concerns in relation to the EP, those concerns should be explicitly written out to make sure reviewers of the EP are aware of them.

Rejected Ideas
==============
Throughout the discussion of an EP, various proposed ideas end up not being accepted. Those rejected ideas should be recorded along with the reasoning as to why they were rejected. This both helps record the thought process behind the final version of the EP as well as preventing people from bringing up the same rejected ideas again in subsequent discussions.
 
References
==========
References -- A collection of URLs used as references through the EP.

Copyright/license
=================

Types of blueprints
*******************

Standard: Describes a new feature and its implementation.

> Informational: Guidelines or information for the community and developers, but does not propose a new feature.

Reviewer 5: I would suggest here to be something like "Process"

Author: You mean the Standard type should be named Process?

Reviewer 5: s/Informational/Process/g

Epic: Describes a problem and its solution.  

################
Blueprint Header
################

Every blueprint proposal should use this template to build their own header:

:EP: <\*EP number>
:Title: <EP title>
:Authors: <list of authors' names and email addrs>
:Created: <date created on, in yyyy-mm-dd format>
:Kytos-Version: <kytos version, in yyyy.v>

> :Status: <Draft | Active | Accepted | Provisional | Deferred | Rejected | Withdrawn | Final | Superseded>

Reviewer 5: I'm missing here, talk about all status possible. So we can evaluate if we really need all those statuses.

Author: I was discussing with Humberto and we agree that the following status are enough: Draft, Accepted, Rejected, Final and Superseded. Do you think that is necessary to explain each one once every blueprint should start as draft?

Reviewer 5: Yes, we need to explain  each state.

:Type: <Standards Track | Informational | Process>
:\**Replaces: <EP number>

\*EP number: should be fixed by Kytos team after the author submit the PR.

\**Optional field.

##########
References
##########

[1] https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0001/#pep-audience

#########
Copyright
#########

This document is placed in the public domain or under the

> CC0-1.0-Universal license, whichever is more permissive.

Reviewer 5: I'm also missing here, some guidance  on "When should we write a blueprint?" Every issue is a blueprint? Every major feature? What is a major feature?

Author: I think these points should be in motivation section.

> :EP: 00
> 
>     :Title: Ehancement Proposals 
> 
>     :Authors:- Antonio Francisco ajoaoff@gmail.com ;
> 
>         - Carlos Magno <cmagnobarbosa@gmail.com>
> 
>         - Gleyberson Andrade <gleybersonandrade@gmail.com>
> 
>         - Humberto Diógenes hdiogenes@gmail.com;
> 
>           - José Mauro Ribeiro zemauror@gmail.com; 
> 
>     - Rogério Motitsuki <rogerio@ansp.br>
> 
>     
> :Created: 2020-05-14
> :Kytos-Version: 2020.1
> :Status: Draft
> :Type: Standards Track

Reviewer 4: The header isn't aligned.
```suggestion
:EP: 00
:Title: Ehancement Proposals 
:Authors:
    - Antonio Francisco <ajoaoff@gmail.com>
    - Carlos Magno <cmagnobarbosa@gmail.com>
    - Gleyberson Andrade <gleybersonandrade@gmail.com>
    - Humberto Diógenes <hdiogenes@gmail.com>
    - José Mauro Ribeiro <zemauror@gmail.com>
    - Rogério Motitsuki <rogerio@ansp.br>
:Created: 2020-05-14
:Kytos-Version: 2020.1
:Status: Draft
:Type: Standards Track
```

Blueprint review
===============

The following days after you submit your pull request the Kytos team will be reviewing the document adding comments and suggestions. So is very important that the author of the pull request pay attention to the Kytos team feedback to make review a quick process.

Sections that a blueprint should have
*****************************************************

Header
=======
This section must  be use the template available at Blueprint Header section in this blueprint.

Abstract
========
A short (~200 word) description of the technical issue being addressed.

Motivation
=========
It should clearly explain why the blueprint is being proposed describing any techinal issue that is intended to be covered by the proposal.

Rationale
========
The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported in other enviroments or scenarios.

Specification
=============
The technical specification should describe the aspects of what is being proposed.

Backwards Compatibility

> <<<<<<< HEAD

Reviewer 4: Perhaps an error occurred while merging this modification.
`<<<<<<<HEAD` in line 103

Author: Thanks. I just fix it.

======================
All Eps that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The EP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. 
=======
=======================
All Eps that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity.  The EP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. 

> >>>>>>> Fix rst syntax

Reviewer 4: The same here. Maybe you can remove this line (line 109).
`>>>>>>> Fix rst syntax`

Author: Thanks. I fixed it.

Copyright/license
=================

Types of blueprints
*******************

Standard: Describes a new feature and its implementation.

> Informational: Guidelines or information to community and developers, but does not propose a new feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Informational: Guidelines or information for the community and developers, but does not propose a new feature.
```

Author: Thanks, I've update it.
